# Detection-Of-Brain-Tumor
Brain tumor is one of the most common brain disease due to growth of cells in the brain that multiplies in an abnormal uncontrollable way. If ignored could lead to severe headaches, paralysis, loss of sight and death. Thus, early detection, diagnosis and treatment of the brain tumor is of vital importance. Identification plays an important part in the diagnosis of tumors. A prime reason behind an increase in the number of cancer patients worldwide is the ignorance towards treatment of a tumor in its early stages. Over time, simple imaging techniques such as Electroencephalogram and Event-related Potentials (ERPs), Lesion imaging techniques, have been used which makes it very difficult to have clear vision about the abnormal structures of human brain. Thus, the Magnetic resonance imaging, which is a diagnostic technique that distinguishes and clarifies the neural architecture of human brain, have been used to determine the tumor growth in the brain. While the automatic segmentation has great potential in clinical medicine by freeing physicians from the burden of manual labelling and tracking the precise location of the disease. This project explored the use of image processing techniques to detect the presence or absence of brain tumor in a set of Magnetic Resonance (MR) Images. MR image was used as the input, while for the image enhancement; anisotropic filtering was used to remove noise artifacts. Threshold based segmentation for image binarization and morphological operations (erosion/dilation) was used to extract tumorous portion The classification of the intensities of the pixels on the filtered image identifies the tumor. Finally, the segmented region of the tumor is put on the original image for a distinct identification.  PS: This project was successfully completed December 2019
